so i think the as we under uncover the
mechanisms
by which this works it's going to be
very exciting to see how it works for
different diseases
with otto warburg he defined the nature
of cancer late 20s early 30s through the
40s
that cancer was a disease of
mitochondrial function
energy metabolism and the warburg effect
is now recognized as one of the
uh underlying features of almost every
cancer
what otto warburg didn't know uh
is that cancer cells can ferment an
amino acid called glutamine
and the pathways for that were not known
in his time
we just published a paper and an asn
neuro
defining and showing how this other
fuel an amino acid glutamine can
also be a fermentable product through
a pathway in the mitochondria therefore
this
uncovering or identifying the missing
link in warburg central theory
when mitochondria are damaged with this
which when
when when any cell is damaged
energetically
acutely the cell will die acute energy
failure will kill cells
cancer cells have chronic energy failure
and as the result of chronic energy
failure
they gradually upregulate ancient
metabolic pathways that existed in all
organisms
on the planet before oxygen came into
the atmosphere
so cancer cells simply fall back on
ancient pathways of fermentation
and in the human body that fermentation
pathway
uses glucose or sugar to generate
uh energy and metabolites for the cell
to grow
so warburg said all cancer cells are
the result of a damage to this
respiratory capacity
step one step two is the ability of that
cell
to upregulate ancient fermentation
pathways
interestingly enough the regulators of
ancient fermentation pathways
are what we call now oncogenes so the
oncogenes are facilitators of
fermentation pathways
so you can put together the whole
concept of what cancer actually is
but warburg did not know that there were
other fermentable fuels
and that led to tremendous uncertainty
as to whether warburg was correct or not
cells are taking in oxygen they're not
using glucose and yet they're surviving
which means that warburg was wrong
the problem is the oxygen is not linked
to into respiration
and they're burning another fermentable
fuel which he didn't know about
now we know about that it's glutamine
and that's the missing link
you